Attempt to clarify in short the modules proliferation design (#6094)
cert-manager/cert-manager: design/20230302.gomod.md

# Design: More Modules

NB: This design doc follows from a Hackathon by [@SgtCoDFish](https://github.com/SgtCoDFish) and [@inteon](https://github.com/inteon).

The intention here is to describe what we did and what we discovered, with an eye to seeking consensus and merging upstream.

## In Short

### Assumptions / Axioms

- It's hard or impossible to upgrade our dependencies months after a release
- We won't change our conservative approach to backports

> - Fewer dependencies in our core go module is a good thing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fewer dependencies in our core go modules are a good thing
```
? (the two changes here are unrelated, the second change is to match `dependencies` and the first to match `modules` on the next line)

Author: I think this is slightly different to what I was going for, because I was intentionally only talking about the core module (i.e. `github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager`). I've tried to keep "core module" and that module synonymous.

That said, you're totally right - this proposal also reduces the dependency surface of other modules, too (i.e. the controller no longer has anything to do with helm).

I'll update to be more generic for that reason! Thanks :rocket:

- Core go.mod dependencies are reduced
- - All importers of `github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager` have fewer transitive dependencies
- - Reduced chance of dependency conflicts for all importers
- - Including us - in subprojects!
- - Many people need to import cert-manager! (pkg/apis, etc).
- - We might split things more in the future - this is a good first step

- Lays the groundwork for further splitting out binaries / packages
- - This is the start of what we'll do if we want cmctl to be its own repo
- - Or splitting `pkg/apis` into a separate module
- - Or splitting issuers into a module (to isolate cloud SDK dependencies)

### Cons

- Using local `replace` statements for binaries will break imports for those binaries
- - We assume this won't be too destructive in most cases
- - If we need to make binaries importable again, we can change them to use regular import statements
- - That would require two PRs in the event that we need to change the binary + the core module at the same time
- - If the binary would've ended up in a separate repo anyway (e.g. cmctl) we'd have done this eventually

- Increased complexity in working with the codebase

> - - E.g. `go test ./...` no longer tests _everything_, since it won't recurse into modules

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- - On a fresh clone, `go test ./...` no longer tests _everything_ since it won't recurse into modules. One has to run `make go-workspace` make `go test ./...` work again.
```

Author: I don't feel like this is the place to add implementation details on how to "fix" things, although I take the point that `go.work` helps with developer experience and is worth mentioning in this section

Reviewer 2: What I actually meant is that "`go test ./...` no longer tests everything" isn't a "con". It should just be considered a minor change in everyone's dev env since the solution is so straight-forward.
